# ColorGames
In this assignment, you will create a color game using javascript. This lesson is your third assignment!
All assignments are hosted on GitHub. In order to work on them, however, you will need to complete work on your local machine.
You can download your personal copy (referred to as 'cloning') to your computer
In this assignment, you'll learn the workflow that you will use to deal with DOM manipulation and event handling. Every application that has a user interface and has observed separation of concern basically requires javaScript to make the website lively Instruction to Completing Color Game Assignment

The basic premise is to generate 6 or 3 (depending on difficulty) different colours and display one RGB value above the colours. The aim is for the player to correctly identify (hence improving their skills at recognising RGB colours) the correct colour from the ones displayed. So the way the game is going to work is like this. The user will be shown the colour and will then need to choose one of the colours on display. If the user picks the wrong colour it needs to be changed to the same colour as the background. When the correct colour is chosen the game needs to change all of the squares to the winning colour as well as the background colour for the h1 tag. Checks to see what colour was picked and compares it to the winning colour and if it is different it changes the background of the wrongly selected square to be the same colour as the background colour (so it fades out).Another behaviour that we want to happen when the user clicks on a colour is for there to be a little message that pops up letting the user know how they did on their guess. This was done using a span tag inside of a div tag (which will be used later to create the navigation menu).Once we’ve done that we’re able to select this span tag in our JavaScript file (so we can update the text content of the tag to include our message).Now that we’re this far we can look at changing the colour of the squares when the user selects the correct colour. Seeing as this will need to be done 6 times (all the squares will be changed to the winning colour) we may as well write a function that handles this for us so we aren’t writing out the same code loads of times. Now that happens, the next step is to randomise both the colours and the selected colour which means that we’re going to need a few random numbers so it would be best to write a couple of function to help us handle these.
Create fun function works by using the Math.random function (that generates a random number between 0 and 1) and we multiply that by the length of our squares array. The function Math.floor() is also used to remove the digits from the resulting Math.random() number. Once this has been implemented the game selects one of the 6 squares at random as desired. The next step would be to randomise the colours in the squares instead of them always being the same colour and to do this you can create another function. Once this has been implemented the game selects one of the 6 squares at random as desired. The next step would be to randomise the colours in the squares instead of them always being the same colour and to do this you can create another function.This is the function that returns a single colour to the previous function that is building an array for our program to use. Now the program selects random colours and allows us to try to guess the correct colour. The functionality is mostly there. Last thing is to change the background of the h1 tag when the user guesses the correct colour. Extensively research plus knowledge learned from previous classes is highly required here.
